---
title: Software
image: /assets/img/blog/sea-star-featured.jpg
description: >
  Computer software, or simply software, is a collection of data or computer instructions that tell the computer how to work.
---

# Table of Contents

1. [Organisational Practices](#organisational-practices)
2. [Understand the Domain](#understand-the-domain)
3. [Software Attributes](#software-attributes)
4. [Approaches to design Software](#approaches-to-design-software)
5. [Software Development](#software-development)
6. [Software Architecture](#software-architecture)
7. [Distributed Systems](#distributed-systems)
8. [Software Transversal Aspects](#software-transversal-aspects)
9. [Legacy](#legacy)

# Organisational Practices

- Project Management
- Development Methodologies
- Risk Management

# Understand the Domain

- Requirements
- Domain Driven Design (DDD)

# Software Attributes

* Availability
* Flexibility
* Fault tolerant
* Scalability
* Reliability

# Approaches to Design Software

- Top-down
- Bottom-up
- Architectural Drivers
  - Objectives
  - Requirements
  - Attributes
  - Constraints

# Software Development

[See more here](2020-04-27-software-development.md)

# Software Architecture

[See more here](2020-04-26-software-architecture.md)


# Distributed Systems

[See more here](2020-04-28-distributed-systems.md)

# Software Transversal Aspects

## Caching

## DevOps

## Testing

## Error Handling

## Documentation

- UML

## Authentication and Authorization

## Validation

## Logging

### Strategy
* Treat application logging as an ongoing iterative process. Log at a high level and then add deeper instrumentation.
* Always instrument anything that goes out of the process because distributed system problems are not well behaved.
* Always log unacceptable performance. Log anything outside the range in which you expect your system to perform.
* If possible, always log sufficient context for a complete picture of what happened from a single log event.
* View machines as your end consumer, not humans. Create records that your log management solution can interpret.
* Trends tell the story better than data points.
* Instrumentation is NOT a substitute for profiling and vice versa.
* Flying more slowly is better than flying blind. So the debate is not whether to instrument, just how much.

How identify the metric we are tracking
`environment.host.service.group.segment.outcome`

environment: This is the working environment, for example, production or staging.
host: This is the hostname of the server running the application.
service: This the name of your service.
group: This is the top-level grouping; for an API, this might be handlers.
segment: This is the child-level information for the group; this will typically be the name of the handler in the instance of an API.
outcome: This is something that denotes the result of the operation, in an API you may have called, success, or you may choose to use HTTP status codes.

Example:
prod.server1.kittenserver.handlers.list.ok
prod.server1.kittenserver.mysql.select_kittens.timing

# Legacy

## Refactoring

## Evolutionary Architectures

## Other Lenses and Discussions

## Reactive programming Vs Reactive systems
[Source](https://www.lightbend.com/white-papers-and-reports/reactive-programming-versus-reactive-systems)

In a Reactive System, especially one which uses Reactive Programming, both events and messages will be present—as one is a great tool for communication (messages), and another is a great way of representing facts (events).

The foundation for a Reactive System is Message-Passing, which creates a temporal boundary between components which allows them to be decoupled in time—this allows for concurrency—and space—which allows for distribution and mobility. This decoupling is a requirement for full isolation between components, and forms the basis for both Resilience and Elasticity.

### Reactive programming
computation through ephemeral dataflow chains (filter, map, reduce)
Events driven
  events are facts for others to observe

### Reactive systems
resilience and elasticity through the communication, and coordination, of distributed systems
Message driven
  messages have a clear destination
  Lambda
    AWS Lambda
  Distributed Stream Processing
    Spark
    Kafka streaming
    Flink
  Distributed Publish Subscribe
    Kafka
    Kinesis

Event streams (stateless)
  events history - stores information for a period
  fine grained subscriptions - hierarchical structure of topics
  scale consumption - event is written once
Messaging Pub/Sub (has state)
  events history - subscriber stores information
  fine grained subscription - filters interesting events
  scale consumption - all subscribers receive event

[Kafka vs RabbitMQ](https://tanzu.vmware.com/content/blog/understanding-when-to-use-rabbitmq-or-apache-kafka)


[Domain Events vs Event Sourcing](https://www.innoq.com/en/blog/domain-events-versus-event-sourcing/)
Event store
Event sourcing
